# pravega_IISc
Hydroponics is a method of cultivation of plants, which are grown in soilless media using water and nutrient mixture. It supports hope for food production in non-agricultural lands as well as in urban areas. In this system, we are using water mixed with minerals and nutrients that are exposed directly to the roots of the plant that can be supported by various media like coco-peat, NPK, etc. We are proposing a solution for maintaining and monitoring the plant health and its mineral nutrition solution using embedded systems and the Internet of Things. Our project monitors pH, Temperature, Humidity and conductivity methods to determine the mineral solution quality. We are supplying the solution from one side and the outlet is on another side, so the continuous supply of this solution enables adequate mineral supply to plants. Using the Bolt IoT platform we are predicting the Temperature and Humidity of the surrounding so that we can monitor them for optimum plant growth.
The pH levels in a hydroponic system can also significantly impact plant health. Plants absorb nutrient solutions through their roots; a plant’s ability to absorb solution often depends on the pH of the solution. All the parameters for plant growth being measured are sent to Google "Firebase cloud" and a database is also made for future reference. and sent to an Android app that we have built using MIT app inventor we are using more of the open-source hardware, thus we integrate our prototype into a cost-effective solution for people who are into gardening and suitable for places without proper vegetation.
